Webhook provider (#3063)
kubernetes-sigs/external-dns: docs/tutorials/webhook-provider.md

The idea behind it is that providers can be implemented in a separate program: these programs expose an HTTP API that the Webhook provider can interact with. The ideal setup for providers is to run as sidecars in the same pod of the ExternalDNS container and listen on localhost only. This is not strictly a requirement, but we would not recommend other setups.

## Architectural diagram

![Webhook provider](../img/webhook-provider.png)

## API guarantees

Providers implementing the HTTP API have to keep in sync with changes to the Go types `plan.Changes` and `endpoint.Endpoint`. We do not expect to make significant changes to those types given the maturity of the project, but we can't exclude that changes will need to happen. We commit to publishing changes to those in the release notes, to ensure that providers implementing the API can keep providers up to date quickly.

## Implementation requirements

The following table represents the methods to implement mapped to their HTTP method and route.

| Provider method | HTTP Method | Route |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Records | GET | /records |

> | ApplyChanges | POST | /records |
> | AdjustEndpoints | POST | /adjustendpoints |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AdjustEndpoints | POST | /adjustendpoints |
| ApplyChanges | POST | /records |
```

Better to list them in the order that they're called.

The server needs to respond to those requests by reading the `Accept` header and responding with a corresponding `Content-Type` header specifying the supported media type format and version.

> **NOTE**: only `5xx` responses will be retried and only `200` will be considered as successful. All status codes different from those will be considered a failure on ExternalDNS' side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: only `5xx` responses will be retried and only `200` will be considered as successful. All status codes different from those will be considered a failure on ExternalDNS's side.
```

Reviewer: A POST on `records` only considers `204` successful.

## Provider registry

To simplify the discovery of providers, we will accept pull requests that will add links to providers in the [README](../../README.md) file. This list will serve the only purpose of simplifying finding providers and will not constitute an official endorsment of any of the externally implemented providers unless otherwise specified.

## Run the AWS provider with the webhook provider.

To test the Webhook provider and provide a reference implementation, we added the functionality to run the AWS provider as a webhook. To run the AWS provider as a webhook, you need the following flags:

```yaml
- --provider=webhook
- --run-aws-provider-as-webhook
```

> What will happen behind the scenes is that the AWS provider will be be started as an HTTP server exposed only on localhost and the webhook provider will be configured to talk to it. This is the same setup that we recommend for other providers and a good way to test the Webhook provider other than to serve as a reference implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What will happen behind the scenes is that the AWS provider will be be started as an HTTP server exposed only on localhost and the webhook provider will be configured to talk to it. This is the same setup that we recommend for other providers and a good way to test the Webhook provider.
```

I cannot decipher what is meant by "other than to serve as"

# Webhook provider

> The "Webhook" provider allows to integrate ExternalDNS with DNS providers via an HTTP interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Webhook" provider allows integrating ExternalDNS with DNS providers through an HTTP interface.
```

> The Webhook provider implements the Provider interface. Instead of implementing code specific to a provider, it implements an HTTP client that sends request to an HTTP API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Webhook provider implements the `Provider` interface. Instead of implementing code specific to a provider, it implements an HTTP client that sends requests to an HTTP API.
```

> The idea behind it is that providers can be implemented in a separate program: these programs expose an HTTP API that the Webhook provider can interact with. The ideal setup for providers is to run as sidecars in the same pod of the ExternalDNS container and listen on localhost only. This is not strictly a requirement, but we would not recommend other setups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea behind it is that providers can be implemented in separate programs: these programs expose an HTTP API that the Webhook provider interacts with. The ideal setup for providers is to run as a sidecar in the same pod of the ExternalDNS container, listening only on localhost. This is not strictly a requirement, but we do not recommend other setups.
```

## Architectural diagram

![Webhook provider](../img/webhook-provider.png)

## API guarantees

> Providers implementing the HTTP API have to keep in sync with changes to the Go types `plan.Changes` and `endpoint.Endpoint`. We do not expect to make significant changes to those types given the maturity of the project, but we can't exclude that changes will need to happen. We commit to publishing changes to those in the release notes, to ensure that providers implementing the API can keep providers up to date quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Providers implementing the HTTP API have to keep in sync with changes to the JSON serialization of Go types `plan.Changes`, `endpoint.Endpoint`, and `endpoint.DomainFilter`. Given the maturity of the project, we do not expect to make significant changes to those types, but can't exclude the possibility that changes will need to happen. We commit to publishing changes to those in the release notes, to ensure that providers implementing the API can keep providers up to date quickly.
```

## Implementation requirements

The following table represents the methods to implement mapped to their HTTP method and route.

| Provider method | HTTP Method | Route |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Records | GET | /records |
| AdjustEndpoints | POST | /adjustendpoints |
| ApplyChanges | POST | /records |

> ExternalDNS will also make requests to the `/` endpoint for negotatiation and for deseliarization of the `DomainFilter`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ExternalDNS will also make requests to the `/` endpoint for negotiation and for deserialization of the `DomainFilter`.
```

The server needs to respond to those requests by reading the `Accept` header and responding with a corresponding `Content-Type` header specifying the supported media type format and version.

**NOTE**: only `5xx` responses will be retried and only `20x` will be considered as successful. All status codes different from those will be considered a failure on ExternalDNS's side.

## Provider registry

> To simplify the discovery of providers, we will accept pull requests that will add links to providers in the [README](../../README.md) file. This list will serve the only purpose of simplifying finding providers and will not constitute an official endorsment of any of the externally implemented providers unless otherwise specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify the discovery of providers, we will accept pull requests that will add links to providers in the [README](../../README.md) file. This list will only serve the purpose of simplifying finding providers and will not constitute an official endorsement of any of the externally implemented providers unless otherwise stated.
```
